# Select

The most important keyword in SQL is `SELECT`.

It's used to retrieve records from the database. By combining it with other keywords you can produce powerful insights into your data.

## Selecting records & fields

Use `SELECT` to specify which columns you want to retrieve from a table.

You must use `FROM` with it to identify which table you intend to select from.

For example, `SELECT` _name_, _surname_ `FROM` _employees_ queries the name, surname columns `FROM` the employees table.

Example:

```sql
SELECT name, surname FROM employees;
```

## Selecting all fields

If you want to retrieve all columns `FROM` a table, use `SELECT` _ `FROM` table_name. For example, `SELECT` _ `FROM` employees retrieves all columns `FROM` the employees table.

Example:

```sql
SELECT * from employees;
```

## Selecting distinct values

You can use `SELECT DISTINCT` column_name `FROM` table_name to retrieve only unique values `FROM` a column. For example, `SELECT DISTINCT` title `FROM` employees retrieves a list of titles `FROM` the employees table.

Example:

```sql
select distinct title from employees;
```

## Column aliases

You can rename columns in your result set using aliases. For example, `SELECT` firstname `AS` employee_name, lastname `AS` employee_lastname `FROM` employees renames the columns in the result set.

Example:

```sql
SELECT name AS employee_firstname, surname AS employee_lastname FROM employees;
```

Example:

```sql
SELECT
    name AS employee_firstname,
    surname AS employee_lastname,
    (strftime('%Y', 'now') - strftime('%Y', birth_date)) - (strftime('%m-%d', 'now') < strftime('%m-%d', birth_date)) AS age_in_years
FROM
    employees;
```

## Select expressions

In addition to specifying columns, you can also use expressions in a `SELECT` statement. For example, `SELECT` name, age - 21 `AS` younger_age `FROM` employees calculates age minus 21 and displays it as younger_age in the result set.

Example:

```sql
select name, age - 21 as younger_age from employees;
```

# Conclusion

These are the top 5 things to know about `SELECT` statements in SQL.

- Select fields
- Select all
- Select distinct
- Aliases
- Expressions

## Resources

- [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_select.asp)
  1
