# Order By

When working with SQL, understanding how to sort data using the `ORDER BY` clause is essential. Here are the top 5 things to know about using the `ORDER BY` clause in SQL:

## Ordering by a field

The `ORDER BY` clause sorts the rows in your result set based on one or more columns. By default, the rows are sorted in ascending order. For example, to retrieve employees ordered by their age in ascending order we can use:

Example:

```sql
SELECT name, age FROM employees ORDER BY age;
```

## Switching order of results

You can specify `DESC`ending order using the `DESC` keyword. For example, `SELECT` name, age `FROM` employees `ORDER BY` age `DESC` sorts employees by age in `DESC`ending order. For example to retrieve the employees ordered by their salaries in descending order we can use:

Example:

```sql
SELECT name, age, salary FROM employees ORDER BY salary DESC;
```

## Sorting by multiple columns

You can sort by multiple columns, with sorting priorities determined by the order you list the columns.

In other words it's a way to group of order bys on values that might be the same.

For example we can first order by salary and then age:

Example:

```sql
SELECT name, age,salary FROM employees ORDER BY salary, age;
```

### Order by salary, age, then name desc,

```sql
SELECT name, age,salary FROM employees ORDER BY salary, age, name DESC;
```

## Ordering by column alias

If you use an alias for a column in your `SELECT` statement, you can also use it in the `ORDER BY` clause. For example we could order by seniority by first aliasing hire_date.

Example:

```sql
SELECT
    name,
    (CAST(strftime('%Y', 'now') AS INTEGER) - CAST(strftime('%Y', hire_date) AS INTEGER)) AS years_at_company
FROM
    employees
ORDER BY
    years_at_company;
```

## Case Sensitivity and Collation:

Sorting can be affected by the case sensitivity and collation settings of the database. For example, in some databases, 'A' and 'a' are considered different characters when sorting, while in others, they are considered equal. Be mindful of your database's specific settings when sorting.

Example:

```sql

```

# Conclusion

These are the key aspects of the `WHERE` clause in SQL. Let me know if there's anything else you need help with!

## Resources

- [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_orderby.asp)
