# Intro

Learning SQL will undoubtedly paid you dividends in the future.

The roles that open up to you with skills in SQL are backend developer, data analyst, business analyst, data scientist, SEO analyst and more.

Over the course of this module we'll work with several groups of tables which represent real businesses.

The businesses will be a tech consulting firm, stock exchange, ecommerce store & film streaming/reference app.

Tables will range from employees, invoices, stocks, orders, assets, films, film_directors & more.

## Table of Contents

The most common keywords/expressions to know are listed below.

- `INSERT`
  - Creating records/rows/data in the database tables;
- `SELECT`
  - Reading records from the database.
- `UPDATE`
  - Updating records.
- `DELETE`
  - Removing data from our tables/database.
- `WHERE`
  - Filtering the results of our queries.
- `ORDER BY`
  - Sorting the results of our queries.
- `GROUP BY`
  - Concatenating results into groups similar to folding or collapsing multiple values into one.
- `AGGREGATE`
  - Collapsing data.
- `JOIN`
  - Combing the columns of two or more tables.
- `UNION`
  - Using multiple selects together.
- `WINDOW`
  - Comparing single rows of a table to the other rows collectively.
    over, partition by,
- `FUNCTION`
  - Free queries already provided or custom created.
  - sum, max, min, avg, cast,

## Advanced

The following are combinations of techniques & common modules you'll need to get to know as you advance in your career.

- Subqueries
  - Nesting queries
- Table Management
  Changing table name, change column name/type,
- Database Management
