# 2.0 WHERE

## Filtering with WHERE

The `WHERE` clause is the primary way to filter rows in SQL. It allows you to specify a condition that the record must meet to be included in the result set. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` age > 30 filters employees older than 30.

Example:

```sql
SELECT name, surname from employees where age > 30;
```

## Combining multiple conditions with AND

You can combine multiple conditions using logical operators such as `AND` `AND` OR. `AND` requires all conditions to be true for a row to be returned, while OR requires any one condition to be true. For example to query employees older than 30 or from California

Example:

```sql
SELECT name FROM employees WHERE age > 30 OR state = "CA"
```

## Using Comparison Operators:

SQL offers several comparison operators for filtering data, such as =, <>, >, <, >=, `AND` <=. These allow you to filter rows based on relationships between columns `AND` values. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` salary >= 50000 retrieves employees with a salary of at least 100,000

Example:

```sql
SELECT name FROM employees WHERE salary >= 100000
```

## Pattern Matching with LIKE:

The LIKE operator is useful for filtering string data based on patterns. It uses wildcards (%) to represent any sequence of characters `AND` `%` to represent a single character. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` name LIKE 'L%' retrieves employees whose names start with 'L'.

Example:

```sql
SELECT name FROM employees WHERE name LIKE 'L%';
```

## Filtering NULL Values:

When dealing with nullable columns, you can use `IS NULL` or `IS NOT NULL` to filter rows based on whether a column contains a NULL value. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` reports_to `IS NULL` retrieves employees who do not have a manager.

Example:

```sql
SELECT name FROM employees WHERE reports_to IS NULL;
```

# Conclusion

By using `WHERE` we can filter in SQL. Meaning we retrieve only the data we need.
