## 2.0 Intro

### Using the `WHERE` Clause:

The `WHERE` clause is the primary way to filter rows in SQL. It allows you to specify a condition that the data must meet to be included in the result set. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` age > 30 filters employees older than 30.

Example:

```sql
SELECT name, age from employees where age > 30;
```

### Combining Conditions with `AND` `AND` OR:

You can combine multiple conditions using logical operators such as `AND` `AND` OR. `AND` requires all conditions to be true for a row to be included, while OR requires any one condition to be true. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` age > 30 `AND` department = 'Sales' filters employees who are over 30 `AND` work in Sales.

Example:

```sql

```

### Using Comparison Operators:

SQL offers several comparison operators for filtering data, such as =, <>, >, <, >=, `AND` <=. These allow you to filter rows based on relationships between columns `AND` values. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` salary >= 50000 retrieves employees with a salary of at least 50,000.

Example:

```sql

```

### Pattern Matching with LIKE:

The LIKE operator is useful for filtering string data based on patterns. It uses wildcards (%) to represent any sequence of characters `AND` (\_) to represent a single character. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` name LIKE 'J%' retrieves employees whose names start with 'J'.

Example:

```sql

```

### Filtering NULL Values:

When dealing with nullable columns, you can use `IS NULL` or `IS NOT NULL` to filter rows based on whether a column contains a NULL value. For example, `SELECT` name `FROM` employees `WHERE` manager_id `IS NULL` retrieves employees who do not have a manager.

Example:

```sql

```

## Conclusion

By understanding `AND` using these aspects of filtering in SQL, you can effectively retrieve the data you need based on specific criteria.

Example:

```sql

```
