# 4.0 Aggregates

An aggregate function is a function that performs a calculation on a set of values, and returns a single value.

Aggregate functions are often used with the `GROUP BY` clause of the `SELECT` statement. The `GROUP BY` clause splits the result-set into _groups of values_ and the aggregate function can be used to return a _single value_ for each group.

The most commonly used SQL aggregate functions are:

- `MIN()` - returns the smallest value within the selected column
- `MAX()` - returns the largest value within the selected column
- `COUNT()` - returns the number of rows in a set
- `SUM()` - returns the total sum of a numerical column
- `AVG()` - returns the average value of a numerical column

Aggregate functions ignore null values (except for `COUNT()`).

## `COUNT`:

The `COUNT` function returns the number of rows in a set. It can be used with an asterisk (\*) to `COUNT` all rows or with a specific column to `COUNT` non-null values in that column.

In this way we can count the number of employees having each unique title.

Example:

```sql
SELECT age, title, COUNT(*)
FROM employees
GROUP BY title;
```

## `SUM`:

The `SUM` function calculates the total sum of values in a numeric column.

With this we could calculate how much it costs the company to fill that specific role.

Example:

```sql
SELECT age, title, SUM(salary), COUNT(*)
FROM employees
GROUP BY title;
```

## `AVG`:

The `AVG` function calculates the average of values in a numeric column.
Example:

```sql
SELECT department, AVG(salary)
FROM employees
GROUP BY department;
```

## `MAX`:

The `MAX` function returns the maximum value in a column.
Example:

```sql
SELECT department, MAX(salary)
FROM employees
GROUP BY department;
```

## MIN:

The MIN function returns the minimum value in a column.
Example:

```sql
SELECT department, MIN(salary)
FROM employees
GROUP BY department;
```

# Conclusion

These aggregate functions are essential for performing summary calculations on your data and are frequently used in reporting and analytics tasks.can help you with!
